>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hash tables
are made up of two things,
some things store your stuff in, right, so
data structure, and then hashing function.
If you've done any sort of
authentication layer, whatever, for
your company you're probably familiar
with certain kinds of hashing functions.
Has anyone done that?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, like login
page, so.
So you've probably used that before.t
If you've used a JavaScript object,
then you have used a hash table.
That's how JavaScript implements its
objects, as a hash table underneath.
So, what do we know about
JavaScript objects?
Has a key value pair, right?
So we say, I don't know, like name,
actually you don't use name.
User name is, what's your user name?
Some people have a user name they use that
they really like and they wanna share.
No?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like a user name.
What's a famous user name?
I don't know, anonymous.
Anonymous user name, colon,
anonymous age, colon,
question mark, question mark,
key value pairs.
So we're familiar with that.
Under the hood, there's a hashing
function that maps the key to an index.
And this is the core of what makes
the lookup so fast for an object.
Cuz we were talking about time complexity,
remember that?
When I was like, accessing or saving
into an object is constant time, right?
But if we look at for
example a linked list or a tree and
these other data structures that we've
used that are a little more complex.
Maybe you're wondering, how is that
even possible to be constant time?
For it to be constant time, it has to know
immediately where to go and get that data.
Where is it stored?
It needs to go immediately to that storage
location somewhere,
probably in memory, in your computer.
How does it know to get
there instantaneously
without having to like look,
cuz we've been searching and
sorting through things,
how does it get there, right?
And that's where our
hashing function comes in.
Our hashing function is going to
map the keys which are usually
a string to some location,
right, some memory address.
And so,
once we have that memory addressed,
it's gonna do something mathematical
to know a location, like a distance.
And then we can imagine a needle and
this is an oversimplification.
But we have an input that's cat, and
then it does some math that says
the index for cat is 4,300.
And then it'll say, so the location is
gonna be 4,300 plus 8 plus 6 plus 0.23.
Then it'll just move
a needle to that location in
memory.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
this is an oversimplification but
this is how we can sort of conceptualize
how an object has instant look ups and
also instant saving.
It'll just go directly there instead
of having to say is this the location?
Is this the location?
Is this location I'm going in circle cuz
usually we draw it out as like a disc.
Those old record players.
Yeah, exactly.
So you can think of it as a record player,
and
then if you unspin the record
player into a long strip,
you can say each memory
slot is a centimeter or
something, you can find
the location like that.
But it's in a circle.
So, other math stuff.
But, that's the basic idea here.
And same with an array.
An array is easier to make that leap,
right?
Cuz their indices are numerical and so
that kind of makes a little more sense.
But under the hood, it's actually
also a hash table and an array.
Because arrays are actually just objects,
secretly.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or maybe not so
maybe we all know that now,
I don't know, but.
I just remember that I was
dealing with the DOM API and
I had to iterate through
an array of inputs.
And it was really confusing because
it looked like an array and
then I tried to for each through it and
it wouldn't let me.
And then I realized that it was actually
an object with indices that were the keys.
Mm, yeah, and there is also pseudo arrays
out there like the arguments object.
Have you guys used
arguments in a function?
That's a pseudo array.
You can't do a lot,
you can't slice it, for example.
So there's all these weird fake array
things, and they're all objects.
Even a real array.
A real array is an object.
Really the thing that sets it apart
is the dot length property and
the methods that come with it.
Anyway, the idea here is that we're
using hash tables under the hood.
And we're gonna explore and
create our own just for fun.
Cool, so
the first thing we want to start with is
just talking about a hashing function.
So a hashing function, like I said,
it takes an input of any size and
it returns some identifier
that you can map
backwards to it of usually
some fixed size, right?
If we're thinking about that number
coming back as like a memory address or
a location, right?
It's gonna be within some range, right?
It can't return something that's outside
of our range because then you'll be
saving, not on your hard drive,
you'll be saving it to,
I don't know, somewhere else on
your computer that's not useful.
Or, what else?
Yeah, so it's within a range if
you're hashing a password or
you're hashing,
like GitHub will hash all your files.
Like a whole file of whatever
length will hash into some key.
So they could be very, very complex or
they could be really simple like my hash
here, which is gonna return an integer
between 1 and 20 based on a string.